I was walking down the middle of the
dried-up bed of a huge river nearly a
mile wide although it still carries a
stream of water during the rainy season
which strains down from the wetter
central plateau of the island it's a
clear indication of the drastic changes
in climate that have overtaken this part
of Madagascar it's likely that only a
few hundred years ago when the gigantic
birds were alive this was not a desert
but a great area of swamp in which the
EP on is paddled was this an egg
fragment
now merely a pebble
and I thought at first that these two
were merely pebbles but then I realized
that here I had found what I was looking
for these were pieces of eggshell nearly
a quarter of an inch thick but they were
tiny perhaps there were larger pieces
still buried in the sand and the were I
had little hope of finding a whole egg
but of course most eggs are broken by
the cheek as it hatches and only the
rare adil ones remain whole and even
most of those must have been broken
during the course of time I just wanted
to find a really large piece or perhaps
enough of these smaller fragments to fit
together to give me some idea of the
actual size of the original eggs
this lad who had appeared so silently
while I was in grossed in searching was
obviously mystified as to why I should
be groveling beneath the bush out in the
desert miles from anywhere I did my best
to explain to him in French that I was
looking for gigantic eggs not not not
little bits I said pop tea no good
I've been read big Krong Krong Krong yes
but my friend Cheyne who was was not
very good but I don't think he'd have
understood even a genuine Frenchman he
obviously spoke only his local language
when he left I was quite sure he hadn't
the faintest idea of what I've been
trying to explain and was probably going
back to his village to report that he
had met a harmless lunatic although I
searched for the rest of the day I found
no more pieces of egg but when I came
back in the late afternoon with the few
precious fragments that I had found
under the bush I was feeling very
pleased with myself I reckoned that I'd
been pretty sharp eyed to discover them
The Tortoise had been a good omen after
all I spent that evening and the next
morning trying to fit the pieces
together in the vain hope that they
might all belong to one egg
but nothing seemed to fit on to anything
else then I had a visitor she didn't
need to explain what she had come for
her actions spoke for themselves
you